Now first it can be a bit confusing the difference between
scopes and roles versus authorities.
In OAuth2,
scopes define the scope of the access the resource owner has
approved the client to perform on their behalf,
generally in the token they have defined under the scope or scp property.
However, sometimes they can be claims about a resource owner like their roles,
which also need to be considered.
For example, a user, the resource owner,
might have approved a client to access the administrator functions of the
application on their behalf by including the scope admin.
However, the user might not be an admin.
So even though the resource server trusts the user approved the client to
access the admin section by including the admin scope,
it can still reject the request because the user is not
entitled to access the admin section.
They don't have an admin role.
And vice versa, the user might be an administrator, i.e.
having an admin role, and be entitled to access the admin section.
However, they did not authorize the client with the admin scope.
Hence, even though the resource server can verify the user is an administrator,
it will still reject any access to the administrator resources
for the client because they don't have the appropriate scope
authorized by the resource owner to access the administrator
resources on their behalf.
Now Spring stores roles, scopes,
and authorities in the same collection called the granted authorities.
In order to avoid name collisions,
say you have an existing application with the role of admin,
you configure OAuth2 in your application and the scope of admin is in the JWT,
both mean two different things.
The role indicates the user is an administrator,
and the scope indicates they authorize the bearer to
access the admin resources on their behalf.
So in order to have both a scope and a role with the same name,
Spring uses the prefix ROLE_ for roles and SCOPE_ for scopes.
But for authorities, there is no prefix.
Hence, in the code if you see hasRole ADMIN,
Spring will actually search for a value of
ROLE_ADMIN in the granted authorities,
which is the same as using hasAuthority ROLE_ADMIN. If you need to check for a scope, you can use the hasAuthority SCOPE_ADMIN.